[train horn blowing]
[clicking tongue]
♪ What is man♪
♪ That you are mindful
of him, Lord♪
♪ You made the stars♪
♪ You made the sun♪
♪ And all the worlds♪
♪ That came to be
at your command♪
♪ What is man?♪
♪ What has he done?♪
♪ Then you crown him
with glory♪
♪ And with honor♪
♪ Give him dominion♪
♪ Over land and sea and air♪
♪ And store up an inheritance♪
♪ In heaven♪
♪ Oh, what is man♪
♪ That you would care?♪
-[laughs]
-Come here.
♪ What is man♪
♪ That you would let
him live at all♪
♪ To shed the blood♪
♪ Of his own kind♪
♪ And ever fail♪
♪ To even follow♪
♪ Where you call♪
♪ What is man?♪
♪ Why do you mind?♪
♪ Yet you crown me with glory♪
♪ And with honor♪
♪ Give me dominion♪
♪ Over land...♪
Impressive.
[chuckles]
Yes, she is.
♪ And store up my inheritance♪
♪ In heaven♪
♪ Oh, what is man♪
♪ That you care?♪
♪ What is man, Lord♪
♪ That you would care?♪
HARVARD:
Can you believe it?
A murderess, right here
under our very own roof.
I'm loath to admit that
this wolf in sheep's clothing
had me bamboozled.
[laughing]: Presenting herself
as some kind of
paragon of virtue.
Hey, Dr. Fucko.
You remember me?
[grunting]
God...
Who the hell are you?
OFFICER:
Mayflower, you made bail.
ORAETTA:
Just so I'm in the know,
who was it, exactly,
paid for my release?
I have no idea.
Thank you for your hospitality.
Thank you.
[rapid gunfire]
♪
You want this war over?
Get your house in order
and we can talk.
I'll get back to you.
You do that.
[engine starts]
♪
[laughter]
Shit.
We've driven every back road
from here to Canada
trying to avoid them bulls.
And just when we thinking
we home free,
Pee Wee drives us right up
into the asshole
-of the Sioux Nation.
-[laughter]
Now, see, on they land,
they still the law.
Man, they took everything.
Booze, guns...
even the damn truck.
I tried to trade them
Pee Wee for the truck,
but it turns out they ain't got
no use for no retarded Negro.
[laughter]
♪
JOE:
Boss.
What... What?
We got him.
-What?
-Cannon.
We got Cannon.
It's over.
We won.
-[laughter]
-[door bells tinkle]
He's dead.
You did it.
Come on.
Bang.
ORAETTA:
Got very straight backs.
Oh, yeah.
Oh.
What's she doing here?
[scoffs]
Very funny, you Mr. Bail Poster.
What's going on?
♪
Oh, shit!
[gunfire]
♪
-[quiet chatter]
-[man chuckles]
What's going on?
I thought...
He said we got the guy.
Why aren't we celebrating?
He... he didn't make it.
What is this?
Josto Fadda...
What family? Whose family?
You have conspired
with this woman
to kill your own father.
-What?
-Your papa...
when he was weak
in the hospital,
when he was barely alive,
you asked this woman--
this nurse-- to kill him.
That... that never happened.
-Uh...
-Sh... Shut up.
Tell him.
ORAETTA:
Well, they asked so nice,
and, uh...
[short chuckle]
I didn't think,
what with all the peashooters,
that I should lie.
I'm sorry,
what is happening right now?
He was dying.
They shot him-- those children?
Tell him!
ORAETTA:
Yeah, like I said,
as an honest person
who likes to cross her T's
and heart her I's, I'd be remiss
if I didn't
afford myself truthfully
in front of the Lord my savior
and, uh, and these
fine gentlemen.
But, yeah. Y-Ya...
Well, you kinda did.
Did what?
"He's in a lot of pain..."
you said, "and I don't like
to see him like that."
And-and-and
you also said,
"Will you take care of him?"
[Oraetta chuckles briefly]
We...
We got high.
And then...
She's just a skirt
I met the one time.
She was at the funeral.
-Two times!
-ORAETTA: Yeah, and, well,
let's not forget about all those
nights in my apartment.
She's a crazy person!
And I'm the boss!
Hmm?
So let's stop
this make-believe.
I order you-- I order you
to stop now.
It's shit, no?
The old way for the old world.
Brothers, uncles,
cousins.
We live in the new world now.
We need a new way.
I'm gonna piss.
Are you kidding me?
Mm.
Can I at least
get a fucking chair then?
The police say
you kill most of your patients.
I'm sure I don't know
what you mean. [sniffles]
You were arrested
for the killing of your boss.
Well, I mean, but to be clear,
he got better.
This is the woman you choose?
-Un'assassina?
-I didn't ch...
She's a roll-around!
She liked it rough!
Oh, you like it rough.
If you're saying that I...
You thi...
How dare you.
You kill your father...
so you can wear the crown.
Then you kill your brother
so you don't have to share.
No, no, no, no, no.
EBAL:
And this is why
the family business
doesn't work.
Because families are crazy.
You're crazy.
Oh...
[scoffs]
You can't do this.
Wait till I tell
New York about this.
Fucking mutiny?
They'll chop your eyeballs out.
New York knows.
Yeah.
[laughs]
[feet stomping]
Oh, geez, my heart.
I'm gonna kill you!
You-you... you full-blooded
Italian piece of shit!
You piece of shit!
-No! No, you...
I pay you! You...
-Oh!
Now, you just
hold your horses, sir!
My-my g... my neck,
I've got a bad neck!
Josto!
[stomping continues]
They made me tell them.
I'm not talking to you.
You don't have to be mean.
I've had--
and I don't mind saying--
as hard a 24 hours
as has ever been had
on God's green earth.
What do you think's
happening right now?
-You killed us.
-I told the truth.
Now you tell the truth?
Now?
How about when I said
help with my dad,
why didn't you tell me
you were a demented hag?
Don't say that.
Hag.
-[grunting]
-[screaming]
-JOSTO: Hag! Hag!
-You... I said don't say that!
-Hag!
-Hey!
Hag!
Cut it out.
♪ He is trampling out♪
♪ The vintage♪
♪ Where the grapes of wrath♪
♪ Are stored♪
♪ He hath loosed♪
♪ The fateful lightning♪
♪ Of His terrible♪
♪ Swift sword♪
♪ His truth♪
♪ Is marching on...♪
♪ Glory, glory♪
♪ Hallelujah♪
♪ His truth is...♪
Get the fuck...
♪ Marching on.♪
Hey, I made some mistakes, okay?
But I didn't know about...
You don't have to do this.
Hasn't there been
enough killing?
[laughing]
[Oraetta laughing]
JOE:
Wait.
That a serious question?
Listen to me.
This is it--
what they make us do.
We're paisan.
Come on.
We-we change our names.
We eat each other.
We forget.
For what?
Don't you get it, Joe?
This is a ladder,
but there's nowhere to go.
Nah.
Any last requests?
Yeah, uh, c-can you
shoot him first so I can watch?
What?
♪
♪ I heard about a man one day♪
♪ Who wasted not his time away♪
♪ He prayed to God♪
♪ He prayed to God
every morning♪
♪ Noon and night♪
♪ He cared not
for the king's decree♪
♪ But trusted God
to set him free♪
♪ Oh, Daniel prayed♪
♪ Oh, Daniel prayed
every morning♪
♪ Noon and night♪
♪ He cared not
for the king's decree♪
♪ But trusted God
to set him free♪
♪ Oh, Daniel prayed♪
♪ Oh, Daniel prayed
every morning♪
♪ Noon and night♪
♪ Oh, Daniel served
the living God♪
♪ While here upon this earth
he trod♪
♪ He prayed to God♪
♪ He prayed to God
every morning♪
♪ Noon and night♪
♪ He cared not
for the things of Baal♪
♪ But trusted God
who never fails♪
♪ So Daniel prayed♪
♪ Oh, Daniel prayed
every morning♪
♪ Noon and night.♪
BUEL:
Come on, girls.
[car door closes]
[dog barking in distance]
Wait here.
♪
Satchel.
Dad?
[laughing]
Babe! Babe!
[in distance]:
Babe!
♪
[distorted, echoing steps]
-[guitar plays]
-[man whistles
"America the Beautiful"]
♪
[song ends]
So, all is forgiven?
Back to business.
Oh.
I have a few small adjustments
to the deal.
Adjustments?
It's nothing.
A few details.
Are you kidding?
This is half our business.
You want to take
half our business?
We hada deal.
In the park.
-We made a deal!
-Please, be calm.
This is just part
of the new plan.
Our national plan.
For the nation.
New York, Chicago,
Kansas City, Miami,
Texas, California.
You, too, are
a national outfit, yes?
Mm.
Wait, no.
You are one man in one city.
What do they say?
Big fish, small pond.
But we are the sea.
Mm.
I can tell you are thinking,
you can just kill me
the way you kill the men before.
But this is a mistake.
Because when you look at me,
you don't see the man behind me.
And the man behind him.
And all the men that follow.
Forever.
Mm-hmm?
You see them now.
The wave that never ends.
We understand each other.
Cheer up.
Look at it this way:
we are not taking half,
we are leaving half.
You work for us now.
You do what we say
or we kill you
and find someone who will.
[glass thumps]
♪
[brakes squeak softly]
OPAL:
Boss?
Go home.
War's over.
You sure?
It's over.
[car door closes]
[horn playing]
[children chattering]
[horn continues playing]
♪
For Swanee.
Shh...
[gasping]
[horn continues playing faintly]
♪
ETHELRIDA:
History is a form of memory.
But what does it mean
to remember?
We think, naturally,
of our own past,
our lives day by day,
and through them we see
the events of our times.
[feet stomping rhythmically]
We are Black and white,
rich and poor,
foreign-born and domestic.
And yet,
if our pasts are separate,
then aren't our histories
separate, too?
Segregated?
Ask yourself:
who writes the books?
Who chooses what we remember
and what gets forgotten?
My name
is Ethelrida Pearl Smutny.
This is my history report.
[feet stomp]
♪
MAN:
Now I get it.
[rooster crows]